EU ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACT — ARTICLES 8-15
Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 — High-Risk AI Systems Requirements

ARTICLE 8: COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS

1. High-risk AI systems shall comply with the requirements established in this Chapter.

2. The intended purpose of the high-risk AI system and the risk management system referred
   to in Article 9 shall be taken into account when ensuring compliance with those requirements.

ARTICLE 9: RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

1. A risk management system shall be established, implemented, documented and maintained
   in relation to high-risk AI systems.

2. The risk management system shall consist of a continuous iterative process run throughout
   the entire lifecycle of a high-risk AI system, requiring regular systematic review and updating.

3. The risk management system shall identify and analyse the known and reasonably foreseeable
   risks that the high-risk AI system can pose to health, safety or fundamental rights when
   used in accordance with its intended purpose.

4. The risk management process shall consider the effects and possible interactions resulting
   from the combination of requirements and functions.

5. Risk management measures for high-risk AI systems shall give due consideration to the
   effects and possible interactions resulting from the combination of requirements.

ARTICLE 10: DATA AND DATA GOVERNANCE

1. High-risk AI systems which make use of techniques involving the training of models with
   data shall be developed on the basis of training, validation and testing datasets that
   meet the quality criteria referred to in paragraphs 2 to 5.

2. Training, validation and testing datasets shall be subject to appropriate data governance
   and management practices. Those practices shall concern in particular:
   (a) the relevant design choices
   (b) data collection and the origin of data, and in the case of personal data,
       the original purpose of the data collection
   (c) relevant data preparation processing operations, such as annotation, labelling,
       cleaning, enrichment and aggregation
   (d) the formulation of relevant assumptions, notably with respect to the information
       that the data are supposed to measure and represent
   (e) an assessment of the availability, quantity and suitability of the datasets that
       are needed
   (f) examination in view of possible biases, that are likely to affect the health and
       safety of persons or lead to prohibited discrimination
   (g) relevant data gaps or shortcomings, and how those gaps and shortcomings are addressed

3. Training, validation and testing datasets shall be relevant, sufficiently representative,
   and to the best extent possible, free of errors and complete in view of the intended
   purpose. They shall have the appropriate statistical properties, including, where
   applicable, as regards the persons or groups of persons in relation to whom the
   high-risk AI system is intended to be used.

4. Datasets shall take into account, to the extent required by the intended purpose,
   the characteristics or elements that are particular to the specific geographical,
   behavioural or functional setting within which the high-risk AI system is intended to be used.

ARTICLE 11: TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION

1. The technical documentation of a high-risk AI system shall be drawn up before that
   system is placed on the market or put into service and shall be kept up-to date.

2. The technical documentation shall be drawn up in such a way as to demonstrate that
   the high-risk AI system complies with the requirements set out in this Chapter and
   shall provide national competent authorities and notified bodies with all the necessary
   information to assess the compliance of the AI system with those requirements.

3. The technical documentation shall contain at a minimum the following information:
   (a) A general description of the AI system including:
       (i) its intended purpose
       (ii) the name of the provider and its registered trade name or registered trade mark
       (iii) the version of the system
   (b) A description of the elements of the AI system and of the process for its development
   (c) Detailed information about the monitoring, functioning and control of the AI system
   (d) A description of the appropriateness of the performance metrics for the specific system
   (e) A detailed description of the risk management system in accordance with Article 9
   (f) A description of any change made to the system through its lifecycle
   (g) A list of the harmonised standards applied
   (h) A copy of the EU declaration of conformity

ARTICLE 12: RECORD KEEPING

1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed with capabilities enabling the
   automatic recording of events ('logs') while the high-risk AI systems is operating.

2. In order to ensure a level of traceability of the AI system's functioning throughout
   its lifecycle that is appropriate to the intended purpose of the system, logging
   capabilities shall enable the monitoring of the operation of the high-risk AI system
   with respect to the occurrence of situations that may result in the AI system presenting
   a risk within the meaning of Article 79(1) or lead to a substantial modification.

3. For high-risk AI systems used in the context of decisions referred to in Article 6(2),
   the logging capabilities shall ensure, at minimum:
   (a) recording of the period of each use of the system (start date and time and end
       date and time of each use)
   (b) the reference database against which the input data has been checked by the system
   (c) the input data for which the search has led to a match
   (d) the identity of the natural persons involved in the verification of results

ARTICLE 13: TRANSPARENCY AND PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO USERS

1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way as to ensure that
   their operation is sufficiently transparent to enable deployers to interpret the system's
   output and use it appropriately.

2. High-risk AI systems shall be accompanied by instructions for use in an appropriate
   digital format or otherwise that include concise, complete, correct and clear information
   that is relevant, accessible and comprehensible to deployers.

3. The information shall specify:
   (a) the identity and the contact details of the provider and, where applicable, of its
       authorised representative
   (b) the characteristics, capabilities and limitations of performance of the high-risk
       AI system, including:
       (i) its intended purpose
       (ii) the level of accuracy, including its metrics, robustness and cybersecurity
            referred to in Article 15 against which the high-risk AI system has been
            tested and validated and which can be expected
       (iii) any known or foreseeable circumstance, related to the use of the high-risk
             AI system in accordance with its intended purpose or under conditions of
             reasonably foreseeable misuse, which may lead to risks to the health and
             safety or fundamental rights referred to in Article 9(2)
       (iv) its performance as regards the persons or groups of persons on which the
            system is intended to be used
       (v) when appropriate, specifications for the input data, or any other relevant
           information in terms of the training, validation and testing datasets used

ARTICLE 14: HUMAN OVERSIGHT

1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way, including with
   appropriate human-machine interface tools, that they can be effectively overseen by
   natural persons during the period in which the AI system is in use.

2. Human oversight shall aim at preventing or minimising the risks to health, safety or
   fundamental rights that may emerge when a high-risk AI system is used in accordance with
   its intended purpose or under conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse.

3. Human oversight measures shall be proportionate to the risks, level of autonomy and
   context of use of the AI system, and shall be ensured by either one or all of the
   following measures:
   (a) identified and built, where technically feasible, into the high-risk AI system
       by the provider before it is placed on the market or put into service
   (b) identified by the provider before placing the high-risk AI system on the market or
       putting it into service and that are appropriate to be implemented by the deployer

ARTICLE 15: ACCURACY, ROBUSTNESS AND CYBERSECURITY

1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way that they achieve,
   in the light of their intended purpose, an appropriate level of accuracy, robustness and
   cybersecurity, and perform consistently in those respects throughout their lifecycle.

2. The levels of accuracy and the relevant accuracy metrics shall be declared in the
   accompanying instructions of use.

3. High-risk AI systems shall be resilient as regards errors, faults or inconsistencies
   that may occur within the system or the environment in which the system operates,
   in particular due to their interaction with natural persons or other AI systems.

4. The technical robustness of high-risk AI systems may be achieved through technical
   redundancy solutions, which may include backup or fail-safe plans.

5. High-risk AI systems that continue to learn after being placed on the market or put
   into service shall be developed in such a way to ensure that possibly biased outputs
   due to outputs used as an input for future operations ('feedback loops') are duly
   addressed with appropriate mitigation measures.

CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ADVISORY AI AS HIGH-RISK

Under Annex III of the EU AI Act, AI systems used for:
- Credit scoring or assessment of creditworthiness
- Access to financial services or insurance products
- Matching consumers to financial advisors

Are classified as HIGH-RISK AI systems and are subject to all requirements in Articles 8-15.
